>> Bianca: So let's do our game with
our pseudocode.
>> Bianca: All right, so
let's say our list is, I don't know.
>> Bianca: Okay.
>> Bianca: So,
>> Bianca: We're gonna start with our
list.
>> Bianca: So, is the list.length < 2?
Nope, we're gonna break it in half.
So now, we're calling mergeSort
again on the left side.
>> Bianca: So,
>> Bianca: On the left side, which,
if we cut it in half,
we could just take these two,
>> Bianca: So you can do this.
[7,6 and then 1,12].
So, remember,
I said this was important for later.
This is why it's important, because we are
recursing on the left side, and then we're
also recursing on the right side.
>> Bianca: So, we're gonna
go all the way down to the bottom of
our left side, so is it less than 2?
7,6, no, so we're going to do it again,
where we're gonna break
it,
>> Bianca: In half,
it's gonna look like this.
We're gonna have the 7, and
then we're gonna have the 6, and
we're gonna merge the left side,
which is 7.
We're gonna put our little line here.
>> Bianca: Okay,
I don't know where that 2 came from.
Okay, so, is it less than 2?
Yes, so this is when we return, so
now we're returning
a sorted list of length 1,
which is 7, so this Lsorted is 7, okay?
We're good?
So, we're popping this off, nothing else
is executed, because we hit that return.
Then, we're gonna go to the right sorted,
and we're going to pause there.
We're gonna pass in our 6,
>> Bianca: Pass in our 6 here,
which we're just gonna return right away.
We hit that base case, so
we have our sorted list of length 1.
Now, we're gonna continue, and
we're going to merge the left sorted and
the right sorted.
We talked about how the merge was gonna
happen, but let's just skip that part, and
understand that it's going to return
these two lists merged in order.
So, we have 6, and we have 7.
We good?
We're gonna return this,
we have a return statement, so
we're gonna pop this off.
>> Bianca: And
this is gonna be,
>> Bianca: Our left sorted list.
Then, we're gonna continue on, and we're
gonna do the same thing with the right
side.
>> Bianca: And
in the spirit of completeness, I'm gonna
go all the way through this example.
So, the left side,
what do we have, we have 1 and
we have 12, 1 and
then we have 12, all right?
We don't have our base case,
we're going to call the left side.
>> Bianca: Okay, so the left side is going
to be 1, we're gonna return that up,
because that is our sorted.
So, I just think this is genius,
who thinks of this stuff,
like assorted lists of length 1?
Man, okay, so then, we're going to call it
on the right side,
>> Bianca: And again,
we're gonna do the same thing, we're just
gonna return it, cuz we hit our base case.
Here we go,
we get our sorted list of length 1, and
then we're gonna merge it in this step,
and we're gonna return that merged value.
So, it's gonna actually just
be the same as what it was.
Cool, so we're gonna pop that off.
>> Bianca: And
we're gonna reconvene where we left off.,
and now we're going to merge these two.
And again, we know that internally,
this merge routine is going to pick it and
put it in the right order.
And so, it's gonna return [1,
6, 7, 12], and
we pop that off, and
then, that's our answer.
>> Bianca: Very short.
>> Bianca: Any questions?
>> Bianca: It's a fun one.
>> Bianca: All right, so
I have some more pseudocode.
>> Bianca: And
we can kinda talk about it
like an algorithmic analysis,
just,
>> Bianca: Very high level here.
And we have some constant themes,
like returning and
cutting things in half, and
then we have our merges,
which is we're slicing it in half.
And then, our merge routine here,
where we're looping through,
the list is gonna be linear.
And so, we can kind of imagine that to be,
or is, in login time complexity for
a mergeSort.